cocos2d for iPhone
==================

[cocos2d for iPhone][1] is a framework for building 2D games, demos, and other
graphical/interactive applications for iPod Touch, iPhone and iPad. 
It is based on the [cocos2d][2] design:

  * it uses the same API and design, but instead of using python it, uses objective-c.


Main features
-------------
   * Scene management (workflow)
   * Transitions between scenes
   * Sprites and Sprite Sheets
   * Effects: Lens, Ripple, Waves, Liquid, etc.
   * Actions (behaviours): 
     * Trasformation Actions: Move, Rotate, Scale, Fade, Tint, etc.
     * Composable actions: Sequence, Spawn, Repeat, Reverse
     * Ease Actions: Exp, Sin, Cubic, Elastic, etc.
     * Misc actions: CallFunc, OrbitCamera
   * Basic menus and buttons
   * Integrated with physics engines: Box2d and Chipmunk
   * Particle system
   * Fonts:
     * Fast font rendering using Fixed and Variable width fonts
     * Support for .ttf fonts
   * Texture Atlas support
   * Tile Map support: Orthogonal, Isometric and Hexagonal
   * Parallax scrolling
   * Motion Streak
   * High Score server (cocosLive library)
   * Touch/Accelerometer
   * Portrait and Landscape mode
   * Sound Engine support (CocosDenshion library)
   * Integrated Pause/Resume
   * Integrated Slow motion/Fast forward
   * Fast textures: PVRTC 2-bit & 4-bit textures, RGBA 16-bit (and 32-bit) textures
   * Language: objective-c
   * Open Source: Compatible with open and closed source projects
   * OpenGL ES 1.1 based


This library does not work with the toolchain, but it
should be easy to port it to it.


Build Requirements
------------------

Mac OS X 10.5.3, Xcode 3.1, iPhone OS 2.0, Beta 8 release or later


Runtime Requirements
--------------------

Mac OS X 10.5.3, iPhone OS 2.0, Beta 8 release or later


Files and Folders
-----------------

  * cocos2d/  
     core files and folders of cocos2d
  * cocoslive/  
     high score client library
  * CocosDenshion/  
     sound engine library
  * tests/  
     tests, demo and template examples     
  * experimental/  
     experimental stuff
  * external/  
     3rd party libraries used by cocos2d or any other project.
     * Chipmunk/: physics library
     * Box2d/: physics library
     * TouchJSON/: JSON parser
     * Tremor/: OGG audio decoder


How to run the tests
--------------------

Xcode -> View -> Customize toolbar  
Then, drag "Active Target" and "Active Executable" to your top project tool bar.  
Select the test you want to view in both drop downs and hit Build and Go.

How to start a new game
-----------------------

Run the 'install-templates.sh' script as root:  
    $ cd cocos2d-iphone
    $ sudo ./install-templates.sh
And then open XCode -> New Project -> User Templates -> cocos2d


[1]: http://www.cocos2d-iphone.org "cocos2d iPhone"
[2]: http://www.cocos2d.org "cocos2d"
